Animating text like this can be
challenging but this tutorial will help
you how to do that. Hey everyone, my
name is Abhishek and today we are going
to create this typography animation in
after effects using animation
properties. So let's see how to make
this.
All right after effects and today we are
going to use the animation text
properties to create this typography
animation. And the best thing is that it
is not that complicated. You only have
to animate one of the text and later on
you can just reuse it and with just
little bit of tweaks you can create this
entire animation which looks very
complex but at the same time it's not.
So let's see how you can make this. So
first let's create a new composition.
Let's call this one main. Width and
height will be 1920 x 1080 frame rate 30
and duration you can pick whatever you
want. Let's set this to 20. Just click
on okay. So here we have our
composition. Let's begin by creating a
new background. So right click new.
Let's add a solid. And for this one, I'm
going to make it little bit dark like
that. Perfect. So here we have our
background. We can lock this so that we
don't accidentally select this. Now we
can start adding our text. So let's
select the text tool and just click. And
you can type whatever you want. I'm
going to type animating. And for the
font, I'm using this Monserat. And for
this one, let's just make it like simple
bold font like that. Now it's completely
up to you can use whatever font you
want. I'm going to use this one. So
let's align it to the center. In in case
you are not able to see the align panel
then you can go to windows and from here
you can enable it. Now we are going to
also enable the title action save so
that we can see where we are placing our
text. First we are going to animate the
single word using the animation
property. Later on we can reuse them to
create other text. So for that let's
open this up. Let's go to animate and we
going to animate its position and we are
going to animate its opacity.
So both of these properties. So opacity
I'm going to set this to zero. position.
We can play around with wherever we want
our text to appear. So, first we are
going to set this Y value to 100. So, we
want our text to appear from bottom.
Also, let's go under the range selector.
Let's add a key frame for offset. And
I'm going to animate it from - 100.
Let's move like little bit ahead and
just set this value to 100. Now, we can
go under the advanced option and there
are a couple of settings that we have to
change. First, I'm going to change the
shape. So, instead of square, let's set
this to ramp up. Also let's increase the
ease low value to 100 so that we have
this very smooth animation. Now there
are a couple of settings that you can
play around. For example, if I play
this, you can see right now it is
animating word character after
character. But if you want to animate
the whole word, then you can change it
from here. So if I set this to word. Now
if I press play, you can see now we have
this very nice text popping up. And in
the same way we can create other text as
well. But for now let's stick to this.
So let's add one more text which is
right next to it. So let's call this one
text and let's add some space. You can
play around with these text and you can
just change their look. So for example,
I'm going to make this like little bit
black and let's change its color like
that. If you want you can play around
with its size as well. Let's keep it
over here. So now if I press play, you
can see we have this very nice text and
it is going to animate one word after
other. So this is the basic of this
animation. We are done with the
animation property part. Now we can
reuse this text later on. So let me show
you how to do that. So first I'm going
to like quickly make it little bit
smaller. So before we continue, if you
enjoy my work and you want to support me
then you can check out my Patreon page.
Over there you will get access to the
tutorial project file exclusive
templates and all the advanced VFX and
CGI tutorials that are available only on
Patreon. So make sure to check them out.
Link for that is in the description. And
now let's continue. Now along with this
primary motion which is this text
appearing we also want little bit of
secondary motion to control our whole
scene. So for that let's add a null
object and we are going to parent this
to the null. Now let's select this null
press S. Let's add a key frame and let's
add a key frame for position as well.
Let's press U. Now in the beginning we
want this to be like little bit scaled
up so that our text is like
animating in and maybe we can make it
little bit more. Now we can select these
key frames. Press F9 to easy them. Let's
go under the graph editor. Now if your
graph looks different then make sure
you're using the speed graph not the
value graph. And for this starting point
I'm going to like quickly change it to
let's say something like this. So here
you can see we have this very nice text
revealing animation. Perfect. Let's
select this and we can play around with
the timing of it. If I move these key
frames far away, you can see now the
animation is slower. Now based upon your
voice over or lyrics whatever you have
you can just play around with the timing
of it but I think this looks good to me.
Now in the same way we can add more
text. So for that all we have to do just
select this. Let's press Ctrl D and this
time we can place it down below. Now
let's change this.
And I'm going to change this to like
let's make this one black and let's
increase its size.
And let's just align it somewhere around
here. Now if I press play, you can see
the animation to this like text is
already applied because we are just
using the animation property. And as
soon as this text is appearing, we want
this to like move little bit up. So we
can like move it somewhere around here.
Now we can select these key frames,
press F9. Let's get go to the graph
editor and I'm going to change its value
to somewhere around
here. It looks good to me. And let's
play around with its timing. So it is
appearing from here. So we want the
position to start from here. There you
go. Now you can see we have added our
this text. Now in the same way we can
add more text as well. Let me just
quickly do that.
Let's type this and we can place this
text somewhere around here. Now for this
one we can change its animation property
just to have little bit of variation. So
for example instead of making it like
appear from bottom what we can do is we
can make it come from the top. And for
that let's select this text and if I
open this up under the position property
instead of y value I'm going to set this
to zero. I'm going to change it to the x
value so that it comes from the right
side. So now if I press play, you can
see now this is coming from the right
side like that.
There you go. Now we can add one more
text. So press Ctrl D and move this text
over here and let's type can and just
align it over here. For this one, we can
change it again. So instead of making it
come from this point, we can make it
like come from top. So let's set this to
zero. And this one we can like move it
to negative 100. So that this will
appear from top. Let's add a little bit
of delay.
There you can see now our text is coming
from the top as well. So at last if I
press play, you can see we have our text
coming like this. Now we can add one
more text. And this is going to be like
a little bit big. So I'm going to press
Ctrl D. And let's call this one B. And
let's just scale this up quite a bit.
and just align it
somewhere
at the bottom. Perfect. Now we can
change its position. And let's just
select this. Press U. So we have our
animation till this point. And after
this we can again have position and
scale key frame. And as soon as this
text appears we can move this up. And
let's just lower down its size little
bit. Perfect. There you go. Now also
let's go to the graph and also change
its easing. Now we can do one more
thing. We can change the easing of
everything at the end. But for now, just
for the sake of this tutorial, I'm going
to like change it to this. Now if I
press play,
you can see we have this very subtle
animation.
And also let's select this.
For this one, we can like make it
100 so that it appears from the bottom.
There you go.
Like that. Now we can select this. Now
let's select this text and let's press
Ctrl D. And this time we want our text
to come from the right side. So let's
just change this.
I've typed my text and let's change its
color. Now I'm going to quickly align it
to this side. And this text will be
quite big.
So just align it over here. Now again we
can select this. Press U. And right
after this we can scale this null again.
And just change its position.
Now we can align it somewhere around
here. Now if I press play, you can see
we have this animation and let's play
around one more thing. Let's increase
its value. And for this one, we can
tweak a little bit more. Let's open this
up. And under the advanced property
instead of words, we can change this to
character. And now if I press play, you
can see we have this. And maybe we have
to play around with the easing over
here.
So here we have the easing. Now if I
press play, you can see we have this
text popping up
really nicely. And there you go. Now we
have our next text. So in the same way
you can like keep on duplicating this
text and keep on adding them wherever
you want. So for example, we can have
one more line down here and make sure to
animate this null so that we have a
little bit of secondary motion just to
focus on any of these text. To stylize
this more, we can do one more thing. So
for example, let's hide unhide this and
let's search for gradient and let's
search for four color gradient. Let's
drag it over here.
And let's make all of these dark.
This to be dark. This to be dark as
well. And this one we can make it like
this color. And let's just move it
little bit far away. Let's place it over
here. So that we have this very nice
background. And at last we can duplicate
this. And let's apply
grid to this.
And let's drag it over here. We don't
want to see the fill. And let's just
lower down the border. And instead of
corner, let's set this to width and
slider. And just increase its value.
And let's lower down this so that we
have this very nice background at the
back as well.
There you go.
Now if I press play, you can see we have
this very nice animation. And this is
exactly what I did in the final project.
So let me just quickly show you. So this
is the final project that you saw in the
preview. And if I press play, you can
see I have animated all of these text
layer exactly how I showed you using the
animation properties. Also I have added
a little bit of this motion blur. So for
that all you have to do is just enable
this like that and make sure that this
motion blur for the composition is also
selected. Now you will have this very
nice text animation and you can see it
looks very professional and it hardly
took me like 15 to 20 minutes to create
this. So this is how you can create
these professional typography animation
in after effects using animation
properties and if you want to get the
project files then it will be available
on Patreon. So if you're supporting me
over there then you can download it from
there. And if you're not then you might
consider it because you will get access
to the tutorial project files and
exclusive templates that are available
only on Patreon. So make sure to check
it out. Link for that is in the
description. And with that being said,
my name is Abhishek and I'll see you in
the next one.
[Music]